Port MASTG test 0039 (by @guardsquare) (#3042)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASTG-TEST-0x39-2.md

---
title: Debugging enabled for WebViews
platform: android
id: MASTG-TEST-0x39-2
type: [static]
weakness: MASWE-0067
---

## Overview

To enable debugging of Webviews, the API `WebView.setWebContentsDebuggingEnabled(true);` can be used to enable WebView debugging (see ["see Android documentation"](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/remote-debugging/webviews/#configure_webviews_for_debugging)).

> Calling this API will enable WebView debugging for **all** of the application's WebViews, independently of the AndroidManifest.xml debuggable flag (See @MASTG-TEST-0x39-1). This allows an attached PC to eavesdrop on, and modify all communication inside WebViews.

Author: Yes :exploding_head: 

> This setting applies to all of the application's WebViews.

https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/remote-debugging/webviews/#configure_webviews_for_debugging

> Calling this API will enable WebView debugging for **all** of the application's WebViews, independently of the AndroidManifest.xml debuggable flag (See @MASTG-TEST-0x39-1). This allows an attached PC to eavesdrop on, and modify all communication inside WebViews.

Reviewer: Oh wow 😨

!!! note Other ways to debug the application

>     Disabling WebView debugging does not fully prevent all possibilities to debug the app and the WebViews. See @MASWE-0101 for more details on how to prevent debugging.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this note will confuse more than help. Let me know what you think: 

What are other ways of debugging the webview if it's not using this? Do you mean that the app can be debugged by other means (but not necessarily the webviews). I guess an attacker able to use frida could call that to enable debugging ...

Author: I meant that setting debuggable=false still allows someone with root to attach a debugger or attach Frida, essentially debugging the app. This is handled in MASWE-101, not 100% it needs a mention here.

## Steps

1. Reverse engineer the app (@MASTG-TECH-0017).

> 2. Inspect all locations where `WebView.setWebContentsDebuggingEnabled` is called, and check
>     1. if it is set to true, and
>     2. if the API call can be executed during runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Obtain all locations where `WebView.setWebContentsDebuggingEnabled` is called and set to `true`.
```

Reviewer: what's meant by "if the API call can be executed during runtime"?

Author: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/remote-debugging/webviews/#configure_webviews_for_debugging contains a code snippet that ties the API call to the manifest debuggable flag.

What this sentence should mean is that the API call itself is not a problem if it is essentially in dead code. Maybe it still should not be in the app...
```
if (Build.VERSION.SDK_INT >= Build.VERSION_CODES.KITKAT) {
    if (0 != (getApplicationInfo().flags & ApplicationInfo.FLAG_DEBUGGABLE))
    { WebView.setWebContentsDebuggingEnabled(true); }
}
```

Reviewer: Ok, got it! Let's see if we should reformulate and/or use this for the evaluation and remediation as well but with more detail mentioning those conditions.

## Observation

The output should contain all locations where `WebView.setWebContentsDebuggingEnabled` can be called with `true` at runtime.

## Evaluation

> The test case fails if any locations in the application can be executed ar runtime, where WebView debugging is enabled.

Reviewer: same question as above about the "runtime" aspect. Shouldn't we just say that if we found this being `true` that must be fixed?
